feat: add the Kotlin Power-assert plugin docs (#4221)
JetBrains/kotlin-web-site: docs/topics/power-assert.md

       |     |      |  |     |               |
       |     |      |  |     |               3
       |     |      |  |     orl
       |     |      |  world!
       |     |      false
       |     5
       Hello
```

To get a more complete error message, always inline the variable into the test function parameters.
Consider the following test function:

```kotlin
class ComplexExampleTest {

   data class Person(val name: String, val age: Int)

   @Test
   fun testComplexAssertion() {
       val person = Person("Alice", 30)
       val isValidName = person.name.startsWith("A") && person.name.length > 3
       val isValidAge = person.age > 20 && person.age < 29
       assert(isValidName && isValidAge)
   }
}
```

The output of the executed code doesn't provide enough information to find the cause of the problem:

```text
Assertion failed
assert(isValidName && isValidAge)
       |              |
       |              false
       true
```

Inline the variable into the `assert()` function:

```kotlin
class ComplexExampleTest {

    data class Person(val name: String, val age: Int)

    @Test
    fun testComplexAssertion() {
        val person = Person("Alice", 30)

>         assert(person.name.startsWith("A") && person.name.length > 3 && person.age > 20 && person.age < 29)

Reviewer: Consider using `Person("Alice", 10)` or some age less or equal to 20. This will result in the following output (manually typed...), which shows that power-assert handles boolean short-circuiting correctly.

```text
Assertion failed
assert(person.name.startsWith("A") && person.name.length > 3 && person.age > 20 && person.age < 29)
       |      |    |                  |      |    |      |      |      |   |
       |      |    |                  |      |    |      |      |      |   false
       |      |    |                  |      |    |      |      |      10
       |      |    |                  |      |    |      |      Person(name=Alice, age=10)
       |      |    |                  |      |    |      true
       |      |    |                  |      |    5
       |      |    |                  |      Alice
       |      |    |                  Person(name=Alice, age=10)
       |      |    true
       |      Alice
       Person(name=Alice, age=10)
```

You could then maybe add a note about using `and` and `or` expressions if short-circuiting is not desired.

The Power-assert plugin can transform various functions beyond `assert`.
Functions like `require()`, `check()`, `assertTrue()`, `assertEqual()` and others can also be transformed,
if they have a form that allows taking a `String` or `() -> String` value as the last parameter.

Before adding a new function in a test, specify the function in the `powerAssert {}` block of your build script file.
For example, the `require()` function:

```kotlin
// build.gradle.kts
@OptIn(ExperimentalKotlinGradlePluginApi::class)
powerAssert {
    functions = listOf("kotlin.assert", "kotlin.require")
}
```

After adding the function, you can use it in your tests:

```kotlin
class RequireExampleTest {

    @Test
    fun testRequireFunction() {
        val value = ""
        require(value.isNotEmpty()) { "Value should not be empty" }
    }
}
```

The output for this example uses the Power-assert plugin to provide detailed information about the failed test:

```text
Value should not be empty
require(value.isNotEmpty()) { "Value should not be empty" }
        |     |
        |     false
        
```

The message shows the intermediate values that lead to the failure, making it easier to debug.

> ### Function call tracing

Reviewer: I don't think this example is equivalent to the one from kotlin-power-assert. What might have been missing is I excluded the explicit configuring of the `dbg` function from the kotlin-power-assert example for brevity, which may have been a mistake. Let's consider the other example again for a moment.

```kotlin
fun <T> dbg(value: T): T = value

fun <T> dbg(value: T, msg: String): T {
    println(msg)
    return value
}

fun main() {
    println(dbg(1 + 2 + 3))
}
```

with output:

```text
dbg(1 + 2 + 3)
      |   |
      |   6
      3
6
```

This example basically shows that a function doesn't always need to throw an exception to be useful. Instead, we call the `dbg(T)` function, but power-assert rewrites the call to the `dbg(T, String)` function and includes the call diagram. This allows us to "log" the call parameters with `println`.

So if you have the `dbg` function configured with power-assert, it's sort of like `println` that you can wrap stuff with and get it automatically logged to the console with contextual information. This is more of a main code example, rather than a test code example. Hopefully that explains better what this example is attempting to demonstrate.

Author: Maybe I'm doing something wrong, but it doesn't work for me.
I specify the `dbg` function in the `powerAssert {}` block but `println()` shows me the result without any intermediate output.

Reviewer: Hmm... interesting. To avoid delaying documentation, I would say exclude this example for now and we can add it later with some additional documentation on what the compiler plugin expects for function signatures. It's kind of an advanced use case that I doubt many people will be interested in right away anyways.

Author: Ok, I'll comment this one

    val errors = mutableListOf<String>()
    override fun assert(assertion: Boolean, message: (() -> String)?) {
        if (!assertion) {
            errors.add(message?.invoke() ?: "Assertion failed")
        }
    }
}
```

After that, you could use it in your test code:

```kotlin
// Import the assertSoftly() function
import org.example.assertSoftly
        
class SoftAssertExampleTest1 {

    data class Employee(val name: String, val age: Int, val salary: Int)

    @Test
    fun `test employees data`() {
        val employees = listOf(
            Employee("Alice", 30, 60000),
            Employee("Bob", 45, 80000),
            Employee("Charlie", 55, 40000),
            Employee("Dave", 150, 70000)
        )

        assertSoftly {
            for (employee in employees) {
                assert(employee.age < 100) { "${employee.name} has an invalid age: ${employee.age}" }
                assert(employee.salary > 50000) { "${employee.name} has an invalid salary: ${employee.salary}" }
            }
        }
    }
}
```

In the output, all the `assert()` function error messages will be printed one after another:

```text
Charlie has an invalid salary: 40000

> Dave has an invalid age: 150

Reviewer: This is not the output I would have expected if power-assert was enabled for the `AssertScope.assert` function. I would expect something more along the lines of the following, if the function was configured correctly.

```text
Charlie has an invalid salary: 40000
assert(employee.salary > 50000) { "${employee.name} has an invalid salary: ${employee.salary}" }
       |        |
       |        40000
       Employee(name="Charlie", age=55, salary=40000)
Dave has an invalid age: 150
assert(employee.age < 100) { "${employee.name} has an invalid age: ${employee.age}" }
       |        |
       |        150
       Employee(name="Dave", age=150, salary=70000)
```

I think configuring the function is just missing, and you need something like the following to make this work as expected.

```kotlin
powerAssert {
    functions = listOf("[package AssertScope is from].AssertScope.assert")
}
```

Author: Exactly, I forgot to add both `"org.example.AssertScope.assert", "org.example.assertSoftly"`functions

Reviewer: `org.example.assertSoftly` is not needed and will result in a compiler warning, only `org.example.AssertScope.assert` is needed.

The Power-assert plugin key features:

- **Enhanced error messages**: The plugin captures and displays the values of variables and 
   sub-expressions within the assertion to clearly identify the cause of failure.
- **Simplified testing**: Automatically generates informative failure messages,
   reducing the need for complex assertion libraries.
- **Supports multiple functions**: By default, it transforms `assert()` function calls but can also transform other functions,
   such as `require()`, `check()`, and `assertTrue()`.

## Apply the plugin

To enable the Power-assert plugin, configure your `build.gradle(.kts)` file as follows:

<tabs group="build-script">
<tab title="Kotlin" group-key="kotlin">

```kotlin
// build.gradle.kts
plugins {
    kotlin("multiplatform") version "2.0.0"
    kotlin("plugin.power-assert") version "2.0.0"
}
```

</tab>
<tab title="Groovy" group-key="groovy">

```groovy
// build.gradle
plugins {
    id 'org.jetbrains.kotlin.multiplatform' version '2.0.0'
    id 'org.jetbrains.kotlin.plugin.power-assert' version '2.0.0'
}
```

</tab>
</tabs>

## Configure the plugin

The Power-assert plugin provides several options to customize its behavior:

> - **`functions`**: A list of complete function paths that the Power-assert plugin will transform. If empty, only `kotlin.assert()` will be transformed by default.

Author: The wording is important.
I rollbacked the fully-quilified here, it seems OK.

        assert(person.name.startsWith("A") && person.name.length > 3 && person.age > 20 && person.age < 29)
    }
}
```

After execution, you get more explicit information about what went wrong:

```text
Assertion failed
assert(person.name.startsWith("A") && person.name.length > 3 && person.age > 20 && person.age < 29)
       |      |    |                  |      |    |      |      |      |   |
       |      |    |                  |      |    |      |      |      |   false
       |      |    |                  |      |    |      |      |      10
       |      |    |                  |      |    |      |      Person(name=Alice, age=10)
       |      |    |                  |      |    |      true
       |      |    |                  |      |    5
       |      |    |                  |      Alice
       |      |    |                  Person(name=Alice, age=10)
       |      |    true
       |      Alice
       Person(name=Alice, age=10)
```

### Beyond assert function

The Power-assert plugin can transform various functions beyond `assert` which is transformed by default.
Functions like `require()`, `check()`, `assertTrue()`, `assertEqual()` and others can also be transformed,

> if they have a form that allows taking a `String` or `() -> String` value as the last parameter.

Reviewer: Just as a note for a followup, I would like to see this expanded into more details in the future. It's enough for now, but we will probably get questions about the exact requirements, and more details here should help.

Author: Yeah, let's plan it as a next step! Thanks for you feedback!

[//]: # (title: Power-assert compiler plugin)

> The Power-assert compiler plugin is [Experimental](components-stability.md).
> It may be changed at any time. Use it only for evaluation purposes.
> We would appreciate your feedback on it in [YouTrack](https://kotl.in/issue).
>
{type="warning"}

The Kotlin Power-assert compiler plugin improves the debugging experience
by providing detailed failure messages with contextual information.
It simplifies the process of writing tests by automatically generating 
intermediate values in failure messages. 

> It helps you understand why a test failed without needing complex assertion libraries.

Reviewer 2: This paragraph mirrors the list that follows, but not quite. I'd argue for making the paragraph shorter ("improves the experience, simplifies the process...") and follow up with the list of features that confirm these claims.

Author: Seems valid. I'll rewrite it after.
Thanks!

The Power-assert plugin key features:

* **Enhanced error messages**: The plugin captures and displays the values of variables and 
   sub-expressions within the assertion to clearly identify the cause of failure.
* **Simplified testing**: Automatically generates informative failure messages,
   reducing the need for complex assertion libraries.

> * **Supports multiple functions**: By default, it transforms `assert()` function calls but can also transform other functions,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Support for multiple functions**: By default, it transforms `assert()` function calls but can also transform other functions,
```

Just to make it uniform with other features.

   such as `require()`, `check()`, and `assertTrue()`.

## Apply the plugin

To enable the Power-assert plugin, configure your `build.gradle(.kts)` file as follows:

<tabs group="build-script">
<tab title="Kotlin" group-key="kotlin">

```kotlin
// build.gradle.kts
plugins {
    kotlin("multiplatform") version "2.0.0"
    kotlin("plugin.power-assert") version "2.0.0"
}
```

</tab>
<tab title="Groovy" group-key="groovy">

```groovy
// build.gradle
plugins {
    id 'org.jetbrains.kotlin.multiplatform' version '2.0.0'
    id 'org.jetbrains.kotlin.plugin.power-assert' version '2.0.0'
}
```

</tab>
</tabs>

## Configure the plugin

The Power-assert plugin provides several options to customize its behavior:

> * **`functions`**: A list of fully-qualified function paths. The Power-assert plugin will transform the calls to these functions. If empty, only `kotlin.assert()` calls will be transformed by default.

Author: ```suggestion
* **`functions`**: A list of fully-qualified function paths. The Power-assert plugin will transform the calls to these functions. If not specified, only `kotlin.assert()` calls will be transformed by default.
```

> * **`includedSourceSets`**: A list of Gradle source sets that the Power-assert plugin will transform. If empty, all _test source sets_ will be transformed by default.

Reviewer 2: "If empty" here reads to me like "if an empty list is provided", but what I think is meant is "if the option is not specified" (because that is the default). Wdyt?

> * **`includedSourceSets`**: A list of Gradle source sets that the Power-assert plugin will transform. If empty, all _test source sets_ will be transformed by default.

Author: ```suggestion
* **`includedSourceSets`**: A list of Gradle source sets that the Power-assert plugin will transform. If not specified, all _test source sets_ will be transformed by default.
```

    }
}
```

After execution, you get more explicit information about what went wrong:

```text
Assertion failed
assert(person.name.startsWith("A") && person.name.length > 3 && person.age > 20 && person.age < 29)
       |      |    |                  |      |    |      |      |      |   |
       |      |    |                  |      |    |      |      |      |   false
       |      |    |                  |      |    |      |      |      10
       |      |    |                  |      |    |      |      Person(name=Alice, age=10)
       |      |    |                  |      |    |      true
       |      |    |                  |      |    5
       |      |    |                  |      Alice
       |      |    |                  Person(name=Alice, age=10)
       |      |    true
       |      Alice
       Person(name=Alice, age=10)
```

### Beyond assert function

The Power-assert plugin can transform various functions beyond `assert` which is transformed by default.
Functions like `require()`, `check()`, `assertTrue()`, `assertEqual()` and others can also be transformed,
if they have a form that allows taking a `String` or `() -> String` value as the last parameter.

> Before adding a new function in a test, specify the function in the `powerAssert {}` block of your build script file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before using a new function in a test, specify the function in the `powerAssert {}` block of your build script file.
```

Either this, or "adding **to**..."

            Employee("Dave", 150, 70000)
        )

        assertSoftly {
            for (employee in employees) {
                assert(employee.age < 100) { "${employee.name} has an invalid age: ${employee.age}" }
                assert(employee.salary > 50000) { "${employee.name} has an invalid salary: ${employee.salary}" }
            }
        }
    }
}
```

In the output, all the `assert()` function error messages will be printed one after another:

```text
harlie has an invalid salary: 40000
assert(employee.salary > 50000) { "${employee.name} has an invalid salary: ${employee.salary}" }
       |        |      |
       |        |      false
       |        40000
       Employee(name=Charlie, age=55, salary=40000)
Dave has an invalid age: 150
assert(employee.age < 100) { "${employee.name} has an invalid age: ${employee.age}" }
       |        |   |
       |        |   false
       |        150
       Employee(name=Dave, age=150, salary=70000)
```

## What's next

* Look through a [simple project with the plugin enabled](https://github.com/JetBrains/kotlin/blob/master/libraries/tools/kotlin-integration-tests/src/test/resources/testProject/powerAssertSimple)

>    and more [complex project with multiple source sets](https://github.com/JetBrains/kotlin/blob/master/libraries/tools/kotlin-integration-tests/src/test/resources/testProject/powerAssertSourceSets)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   and a more [complex project with multiple source sets](https://github.com/JetBrains/kotlin/blob/master/libraries/tools/kotlin-integration-tests/src/test/resources/testProject/powerAssertSourceSets).
```

Should this be a list, with only a single item?

Reviewer: Also, I think this link is wrong. I think `blob` needs to be `tree`. Unless you mean to link to the `build.gradle.kts` file?
